https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-18859 Add ctrl plane API doc (#7925)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/cluster_lifecycle/scale_node_ctrl_plane.adoc

----
+
*Note:* CSRs are not automatically approved.

. If you are using a `BareMetalHost` to add a node, add the following line to your `BareMetalHost` annotations when creating the `BareMetalHost` resource:

+
[source,yaml]
----
    bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/role: master
----

. Follow the steps in link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2025/html-single/installing_openshift_container_platform_with_the_assisted_installer/index#installing-control-plane-node-healthy-cluster_expanding-the-cluster[Replacing a control plane node in a healthy cluster] in the {ai} for {ocp-short} documentation

[#adding-ctrl-nodes-managed-healthy-api]
== Adding control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API

Complete the following steps to add control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API:

. Log in to the hub cluster by running the following command. Add the name of your cluster:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc login --token=sha256~value--server=https://api.<cluster-name>.basedomain:6443
----

. Boot the machine that you want to use as a control plane node from your Discovery ISO.
+

> *Note:* You can also add the new host to your `InfraEnv` by adding the `BareMetalHost` information as a baseboard management controller (BMC) or as YAML.

Reviewer: Sorry, this sentence doesn't really make sense to me 😅  Perhaps it would be nice to link this doc instead? https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.12/html-single/clusters/index#auto-add-host-host-inventory

Reviewer 2: Oh, I'm afraid the confusion here due to my previous comment. I forgot that we are using API here and not UI here.

I meant that the agent can be added to the Infraenv by booting by discovery ISO  and by applying it's BMH yaml. It can be done by API as well.
Both are mentioned in the previous part https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/22b7853b4d06517898e39b7797e4c524b4d3bac1/clusters/cluster_lifecycle/scale_node_ctrl_plane.adoc#adding-control-plane-nodes-to-managed-clusters

So it might be rephrased like 
```suggestion
*Note:* You can also add the new host to your `InfraEnv` by applying it's BMH yaml.
```

. Check the agent state to ensure that the agent is ready to bind to the cluster again. Run the following commands and replace variables where needed:

.. Run the following command to switch your inventory:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc project <host-inventory-namespace>
----

.. Run the following command to get the state of your agent:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent <agent-name> -oyaml | grep state
----

+
.. In the output, check the `stateInfo` line to make sure that the host is ready to bind to a cluster.

> 

Reviewer: An example output might be nice to have here (taken from Chinmay's example in the issue):
```
    agent.agent-install.openshift.io/state: known-unbound
    state: known-unbound
    stateInfo: Host is ready to be bound to a cluster
```

Author: We try to keep output examples to a minimum to help with performance and accessibility in the docs. We add them when the output is difficult to understand or if it is necessary. I think in this case the output text is clear enough that we don't need the example, but I'm open to additional opinions here.

Reviewer: Gotcha, that makes sense! Omitting the example here sounds fine to me. Thanks for letting me know!

> . If you are using the Discovery ISO to add a node, set the agent to `master`. Run the following command:

Reviewer: Since the command below also approves the agent 
```suggestion
. If you are using the Discovery ISO to add a node, approve the agent and set its role to `master`. Run the following command:
```

    bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/role: master
----

. Follow the steps in link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2025/html-single/installing_openshift_container_platform_with_the_assisted_installer/index#installing-control-plane-node-healthy-cluster_expanding-the-cluster[Replacing a control plane node in a healthy cluster] in the {ai} for {ocp-short} documentation

[#adding-ctrl-nodes-managed-healthy-api]
== Adding control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API

Complete the following steps to add control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API:

. Log in to the hub cluster by running the following command. Add the name of your cluster:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc login --token=sha256~value--server=https://api.<cluster-name>.basedomain:6443
----

. Boot the machine that you want to use as a control plane node from your Discovery ISO.
+

> *Note:* You can also add the new host to your `InfraEnv` by applying it's BMH yaml.

Reviewer 3: rewrite @oafischer to remove possessive. Also yaml is not correct here. and maybe BMH is approved but generally it's good to spell out unless used in official documentation.

Reviewer 3: Apply the host YAML file .... to add a new host to...

Author: Updated

. Check the agent state to ensure that the agent is ready to bind to the cluster again. Run the following commands and replace variables where needed:

> .. Run the following command to switch your inventory:

Reviewer 3: replace <host-inventory-namespace> with your namespace and replace <agent-name> with the name of your agent. (It's better if these are on the steps before the commands)

We should tell them where the variables are, especially for a nonsighted user.

Author: Updated

+
[source,bash]
----
oc project <host-inventory-namespace>
----

.. Run the following command to get the state of your agent:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent <agent-name> -oyaml | grep state
----

+
.. In the output, check the `stateInfo` line to make sure that the host is ready to bind to a cluster.

. If you are using the Discovery ISO to add a node, approve the agent and set the role to `master`. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc patch agent <agent-name> -p '{"spec":{"approved":true,"role":"master"}}' --type=merge
----
+
*Note:* CSRs are not automatically approved.

> . If you are using a `BareMetalHost` to add a node, add the following line to your `BareMetalHost` annotations when creating the `BareMetalHost` resource:

Reviewer: Maybe a bit nit, but I feel like these should just be in 1 step and each of these is a different option within the step since they effectively do the same thing, but they're just different options

```suggestion
. Set the role of your host to `master` 
.. If you are using the Discovery ISO to add a node, approve the agent and set the role to `master`. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc patch agent <agent-name> -p '{"spec":{"approved":true,"role":"master"}}' --type=merge
----
+

.. If you are using a `BareMetalHost` to add a node, add the following line to your `BareMetalHost` annotations when creating the `BareMetalHost` resource:
```

Also since we mention that csrs are not automatically approved below, I think the note here can be removed

Author: I see what you mean, I committed your suggestion. Thanks!

.. If you are using a `BareMetalHost` to add a node, add the following line to your `BareMetalHost` annotations when creating the `BareMetalHost` resource:

+
[source,yaml]
----
    bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/role: master
----

. Verify the patch by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent
----
+

> In the output, ensure that each line in the `APPROVED` column says `true` and that the `ROLE` is `MASTER`. See the following examples:

Reviewer 3: Not sure if this should be caps.

Author: Master shouldn't be, updated

+

> [source,bash]

Reviewer 3: need an extra space before code block.

Author: Updated

NAME                                   CLUSTER    APPROVED    ROLE    STAGE
c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf              true        master
----

. Add the agent to the cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc patch agent <agent name> -p '{"spec":{"clusterDeploymentName":{"name":"<managed-cluster-name>","namespace":"<managed-cluster-namespace>"}}
> }' --type=merge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oc patch agent <agent name> -p '{"spec":{"clusterDeploymentName":{"name":"<managed-cluster-name>","namespace":"<managed-cluster-namespace>"}}}' --type=merge
```

----
+

. Confirm that the agent is bound to the cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent
----
+
See the following example output:

> +

Reviewer 3: same

Author: Updated

[source,bash]
----
NAME                                   CLUSTER    APPROVED    ROLE    STAGE
c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf   hcpagent   true        master
----

. Verify the agent status by the running the following command. While the agent is installing and joining the cluster, you might need to wait a few minutes:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent -w
----
+
*Note:* CSRs are not automatically approved.

. After the agent reaches the `Rebooting` stage, you must manually approve the CSRs. Complete the following steps:

> .. Get the managed cluster `kubeconfig` by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: `kubeconfig` file

Author: Updated

+
[source,bash]
----
kubeconfig_secret_name=$(oc -n ${cluster_name} get clusterdeployments ${cluster_name} -ojsonpath='{.spec.clusterMetadata.adminKubeconfigSecretRef.name}')

> oc -n ${cluster_name} get secret ${kubeconfig_secret_name} -ojsonpath={.data.kubeconfig} | base64 -d > kubeconfig.old

Reviewer: Sorry, the name of the file wasn't changed from my copy pasta

```suggestion
oc -n ${cluster_name} get secret ${kubeconfig_secret_name} -ojsonpath={.data.kubeconfig} | base64 -d > managed-cluster.kubeconfig
```

----
+

> .. Find any pending CSRs on the managed cluster by running the following commang:

Reviewer 3: typo here.

Author: Fixed

+
[source,bash]
----
oc --kubeconfig managed-cluster.kubeconfig get csr | grep Pending
----
+

> .. Approve any pending CSRs for the agent in the managed clusterRun the following command to a:

Reviewer 3: code clusterRun

Reviewer 3: Did we explain CSR?

Author: Updated and added CSR explanation

+
[source,bash]
----
oc  --kubeconfig managed-cluster.kubeconfig  adm certificate approve <CSR name>
----

> The host is installed when it reaches the `DONE` stage. See the following output example:

Reviewer 3: some of the code doesn't match the  output as far as capital and lowercase, so scan that here.

Author: Fixed

    bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/role: master
----

. Follow the steps in link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2025/html-single/installing_openshift_container_platform_with_the_assisted_installer/index#installing-control-plane-node-healthy-cluster_expanding-the-cluster[Replacing a control plane node in a healthy cluster] in the {ai} for {ocp-short} documentation

[#adding-ctrl-nodes-managed-healthy-api]

> == Adding control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API

Reviewer 3: below for "unhealthy" the header does not read" "by using the API" -- wonder if we can get rid of it for conciseness

Reviewer 3: we say that in the description below.

Author: Unfortunately we already have a topic called "Adding control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters", so I think we need to leave that part in. I'm open to other suggestions though.

Author: It's easier to see all the topics together in this preview: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/10648471349a3b6263b6c979d9d51f222b93e2a0/clusters/cluster_lifecycle/scale_node_ctrl_plane.adoc

    bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/role: master
----

> . Follow the steps in link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/assisted_installer_for_openshift_container_platform/2025/html-single/installing_openshift_container_platform_with_the_assisted_installer/index#installing-control-plane-node-healthy-cluster_expanding-the-cluster[Replacing a control plane node in a healthy cluster] in the {ai} for {ocp-short} documentation

Author: Old link didn't work, please check if the new link is the correct topic.

Reviewer: This link is correct, however, the link changes based on the year so this may be out of date in a year (as an FYI)

Out of scope of this change, it'd be worth investigating if a more permanent URL can be used for the assisted installer documentation.

Author: @CrystalChun Agreed, do you happen to know if generally speaking only the year changes in the link? In this case the topic name changes as well, but I assume that was a manual change that someone worked on.

Reviewer: Yeah generally the year changes for sure, but the topic name could change just dependent on if the doc was updated/worked on and that's a little harder to determine in advance

Author: Discussed this with our strategist and for now we will do a manual sweep of the AI doc links every release to update them if necessary. We only have 4 in the ACM doc so it's not too much work for now.

[#adding-ctrl-nodes-managed-healthy-api]
== Adding control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API

Complete the following steps to add control plane nodes to healthy managed clusters by using the API:

. Log in to the hub cluster by running the following command. Add the name of your cluster:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc login --token=sha256~value--server=https://api.<cluster-name>.basedomain:6443
----

> . Boot the machine that you want to use as a control plane node from your Discovery ISO.

Reviewer 2: I believe it should be mentioned that the new host might be added to infraenv by uploading it's BMH information by BMC form or yaml as well

Author: Updated

. Check the agent state to ensure that the agent is ready to bind to the cluster again. Run the following commands and replace variables where needed:

.. Run the following command to switch your inventory:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc project <host-inventory-namespace>
----

.. Run the following command to get the state of your agent:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent <agent-name> -oyaml | grep state
----

+
.. In the output, check the `stateInfo` line to make sure that the host is ready to bind to a cluster.

. Approve the master role for the agent by patching it. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc patch agent c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf -p '{"spec":{"approved":true,"role":"master"}}' --type=merge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oc patch agent <agent-name> -p '{"spec":{"approved":true,"role":"master"}}' --type=merge
```

> ----

Reviewer 2: as mentioned in https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/791e1651af9ad0544eaa8273df921d6da3115772/clusters/cluster_lifecycle/scale_node_ctrl_plane.adoc#adding-control-plane-nodes-to-healthy-managed-clusters there are 2 ways to set the agent as master. Ought to be mentioned here both as well

Author: Updated

. Verify the patch by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent
----
+
In the output, ensure that each line in the `APPROVED` column says `true`.

> 

Reviewer 2: and the new agent has ROLE master

Author: Updated

. Add the agent to the cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc patch agent c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf -p '{"spec":{"clusterDeploymentName":{"name":"hcpagent","namespace":"hcpagent"}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oc patch agent <agent name> -p '{"spec":{"clusterDeploymentName":{"name":"<spoke cluster name>","namespace":"<spoke cluster namespace name"}}
```

}' --type=merge
----
+

. Confirm that the agent is bound to the cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent
----

> . Install the agent by running the following command. You might need to wait a few minutes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.While the agent is installed to join the cluster, you might need to wait a few minutes and verify the agent status by the command:
```
There is no command to install the agent, it is done automatically

    bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/role: master
----

. Verify the patch by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent
----
+
In the output, ensure that each line in the `APPROVED` column says `true` and that the `ROLE` is `MASTER`.

> 

Reviewer: Likewise an example output might be helpful (taken from Chinmay's example in the issue):
```
NAME                                   CLUSTER    APPROVED   ROLE     STAGE
c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf              true       master
```

Author: I'll add this example since it's short and a little harder to follow due to multiple things to look for.

. Add the agent to the cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc patch agent <agent name> -p '{"spec":{"clusterDeploymentName":{"name":"<smanaged-cluster-name>","namespace":"<managed-cluster-namespace"}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oc patch agent <agent name> -p '{"spec":{"clusterDeploymentName":{"name":"<managed-cluster-name>","namespace":"<managed-cluster-namespace>"}}
```

}' --type=merge
----
+

. Confirm that the agent is bound to the cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent
----

> 

Reviewer: Example output here might be helpful (from Chinmay)
```
NAME                                   CLUSTER    APPROVED   ROLE     STAGE
c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf   hcpagent   true       master
```

Author: Updated

. Verify the agent status by the running the following command. While the agent is installing and joining the cluster, you might need to wait a few minutes:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get agent -w

> ----

Reviewer: The note about CSRs not being automatically approved should probably be down here

```suggestion
----

CSRs are not automatically approved. Once the Agent has reached the `Rebooting` stage, approve its CSRs by following the procedure below.

Run the following command to get the managed cluster's kubeconfig:

[source,bash]
---
kubeconfig_secret_name=$(oc -n ${cluster_name} get clusterdeployments ${cluster_name} -ojsonpath='{.spec.clusterMetadata.adminKubeconfigSecretRef.name}')

oc -n ${cluster_name} get secret ${kubeconfig_secret_name} -ojsonpath={.data.kubeconfig} | base64 -d > kubeconfig.old

---

Run the following command to find any pending CSRs in the managed cluster:

[source,bash]
---
oc --kubeconfig managed-cluster.kubeconfig get csr | grep Pending
---

Run the following command to approve any pending CSRs for this Agent in the managed cluster:
[source,bash]
---
oc  --kubeconfig managed-cluster.kubeconfig  adm certificate approve <CSR name>
---

The host will be fully installed once it reaches the Stage `DONE`, see example output below

[source,bash]
---
NAME                                   CLUSTER    APPROVED   ROLE     STAGE
c6e00642-0e11-1689-a79d-0e131d2c6ecf   hcpagent   true       master   Done
---

```

Author: Updated

Reviewer 3: @oafischer we try not to say "will be"--almost always this can be "is" -- avoiding future tense

Author: Which line is this for? I don't see "will be" anywhere in the code.
